---
title: TIS-100
---

Tessellated Intelligence System

## System details
Massively parallel computer architecture comprised of non-uniformly interconnected heterogeneous nodes

### Node Type T21 - Basic Execution Node

* After executing the last instruction of the program, execution automatically continues to the first instruction.
* All registers store integer values between -999 and 999 (inclusive).
* Comments start with #, text after ## is used as the title of the program.
* Labels are used for jump instructions.

### TIS-100 Registers

Register | Notes
---      | ---
ACC      | Accumulator register.
BAK      | Non-addressible temporary storage for values in ACC.


### TIS-100 Ports
| Port                  | Notes                                                                                                                          |
|-----------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| LEFT, RIGHT, UP, DOWN | Communication register for topologically adjacent nodes. Blocks indefinitely if used until transaction with other node occurs. |
| ANY                   | Reads or writes a value that becomes available on ANY port. (TODO - deterministic which node reads ANY value first?)           |
| LAST                  | Refers to the port last read or written using the ANY pseudo-port.                                                             |


### TIS-100 Instructions

Instruction      | Description
---              | ---
NOP              | pseudo-intruction converted to ADD NIL.
MOV <SRC>, <DST> | SRC is read and written to DST.
SWP              | Exchange ACC and BAK.
SAV              | Write ACC to BAK.
ADD <SRC>        | Add SRC to ACC, store result in ACC. (TODO - overflow behaviour?)
SUB <SRC>        | Subtract SRC from ACC, store result in ACC. (TODO - underflow behaviour?)
NEG              | The value of ACC is arithmetically negated. Zero remains the same.
JMP <LABEL>      | Transfer execution to instruction after LABEL.
JEZ <LABEL>      | Transfer execution to instruction after LABEL if value of ACC is zero.
JNZ <LABEL>      | Transfer execution to instruction after LABEL if value of ACC is not zero.
JGZ <LABEL>      | Transfer execution to instruction after LABEL if value of ACC is greater than zero.
JLZ <LABEL>      | Transfer execution to instruction after LABEL if value of ACC is less than zero.
JRO <SRC>        | Transfer execution to instruction at offset specified by SRC relative to current instruction.
HCF              | Halt and Catch Fire (undocumented)


Node Type T30 - Stack Memory Node
---------------------------------

Node Type T31 - Random Access Memory Node
-----------------------------------------

Debugger
--------

Visualization Module
--------------------

